Downloads/whatsapp-assistant/SECURITY-IMPROVEMENTS.md, before:

# Security & Production Hardening - Phase 1

This document describes the critical security improvements implemented to make the application production-ready.

## ✅ Completed Improvements

### 1. Webhook Signature Verification Re-enabled
**File:** `src/lib/whatsapp/waha.ts`

- **Status:** ✅ Production-ready
- **Changes:**
  - Re-enabled HMAC signature verification for WhatsApp webhooks
  - Development mode: Allows unsigned webhooks with warning
  - Production mode: Rejects all unsigned webhooks
  - Proper error logging with `[Security]` prefix
  - Supports both `sha256=` prefixed and raw hex signatures

**Security Impact:** Prevents webhook spoofing and unauthorized message injection

### 2. API Rate Limiting
**Files:**
- `src/lib/ratelimit.ts` (new)
- `src/app/api/webhooks/whatsapp/route.ts`
- `src/app/api/inngest/route.ts`

- **Status:** ✅ Production-ready
- **Dependencies Added:**
  - `@upstash/ratelimit`
  - `@upstash/redis`
- **Rate Limits Configured:**
  - Webhook endpoint: 100 requests/minute per IP
  - Inngest endpoint: 200 requests/minute per IP
  - General API: 60 requests/minute per user/tenant
- **Fallback:** In-memory rate limiter if Upstash Redis not configured
- **Response Headers:** Includes `X-RateLimit-*` headers for debugging

**Security Impact:** Protects against DDoS attacks, webhook bombing, and API abuse

### 3. Sentry Error Monitoring
**Files:**
- `sentry.client.config.ts` (new)
- `sentry.server.config.ts` (new)
- `sentry.edge.config.ts` (new)
- `src/lib/errors.ts` (updated)

- **Status:** ✅ Ready to deploy (requires DSN configuration)
- **Dependencies Added:**
  - `@sentry/nextjs`
- **Features:**
  - Automatic error tracking in all environments (client, server, edge)
  - Session replay for debugging user issues
  - Performance monitoring with 10% sampling in production
  - Sensitive data filtering (API keys, tokens, secrets)
  - Integration with existing `logError()` utility

**Security Impact:** Early detection of security incidents and system failures

### 4. Environment Variable Documentation
**File:** `.env.example` (new)

- **Status:** ✅ Complete
- **Added Variables:**
  - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN` (optional but recommended)
  - `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL` (optional, falls back to in-memory)
  - `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN` (optional)

## 🔧 Configuration Required

### For Full Production Deployment:

1. **Upstash Redis (Recommended for rate limiting):**
   ```bash
   # Create free account at https://upstash.com
   # Add to Vercel environment variables:
   UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL=https://your-redis.upstash.io
   UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN=your-redis-token
   ```

2. **Sentry (Highly Recommended for error monitoring):**
   ```bash
   # Create project at https://sentry.io
   # Add to Vercel environment variables:
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN=https://your-dsn@sentry.io/project-id
   ```

3. **Verify WAHA Webhook Secret is set:**
   ```bash
   # Should already be configured, but verify in Vercel:
   WAHA_WEBHOOK_SECRET=my-aibud-waha-webhook-secret
   ```

## 📊 Security Posture Before vs After

| Security Control | Before | After |
|-----------------|---------|-------|
| Webhook Signature Verification | ❌ Disabled | ✅ Enabled |
| API Rate Limiting | ❌ None | ✅ Multi-tier |
| Error Monitoring | ❌ Console only | ✅ Sentry integration |
| DDoS Protection | ❌ Vulnerable | ✅ Protected |
| Sensitive Data Filtering | ⚠️ Partial | ✅ Comprehensive |

## 🎯 Next Steps (Phase 2 & 3)

### Phase 2: Observability (Before First Customers)
- [ ] Implement structured logging (pino/winston)
- [ ] Add request/response logging middleware
- [ ] Set up Inngest dashboard monitoring
- [ ] Configure uptime monitoring (UptimeRobot/Pingdom)

### Phase 3: Operational Readiness (Before Scaling)
- [ ] Add test coverage (Jest/Vitest, target 40-50%)
- [ ] Complete or remove stub features (poll-manager, vision-estimator, billing-guard)
- [ ] Create incident response runbook
- [ ] Document deployment/rollback procedures
- [ ] Add health check endpoints

## 📖 References

- [Upstash Redis Documentation](https://docs.upstash.com/redis)
- [Sentry Next.js Guide](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/)
- [WAHA Webhook Verification](https://waha.devlike.pro/docs/how-to/webhooks/#hmac-signature)
- [Rate Limiting Best Practices](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6585.html#section-4)

## 🔒 Security Checklist

- [x] Webhook signature verification enabled
- [x] API rate limiting implemented
- [x] Error monitoring configured
- [x] Sensitive data filtering in logs
- [x] Environment variable documentation
- [x] Build passes TypeScript checks
- [ ] Upstash Redis configured in Vercel
- [ ] Sentry DSN configured in Vercel
- [ ] Production smoke tests passed

Commit message:

docs: Add detailed step-by-step setup guide for Upstash and Sentry

Downloads/whatsapp-assistant/SECURITY-IMPROVEMENTS.md, after:

# Security & Production Hardening - Phase 1

This document describes the critical security improvements implemented to make the application production-ready.

## ✅ Completed Improvements

### 1. Webhook Signature Verification Re-enabled
**File:** `src/lib/whatsapp/waha.ts`

- **Status:** ✅ Production-ready
- **Changes:**
  - Re-enabled HMAC signature verification for WhatsApp webhooks
  - Development mode: Allows unsigned webhooks with warning
  - Production mode: Rejects all unsigned webhooks
  - Proper error logging with `[Security]` prefix
  - Supports both `sha256=` prefixed and raw hex signatures

**Security Impact:** Prevents webhook spoofing and unauthorized message injection

### 2. API Rate Limiting
**Files:**
- `src/lib/ratelimit.ts` (new)
- `src/app/api/webhooks/whatsapp/route.ts`
- `src/app/api/inngest/route.ts`

- **Status:** ✅ Production-ready
- **Dependencies Added:**
  - `@upstash/ratelimit`
  - `@upstash/redis`
- **Rate Limits Configured:**
  - Webhook endpoint: 100 requests/minute per IP
  - Inngest endpoint: 200 requests/minute per IP
  - General API: 60 requests/minute per user/tenant
- **Fallback:** In-memory rate limiter if Upstash Redis not configured
- **Response Headers:** Includes `X-RateLimit-*` headers for debugging

**Security Impact:** Protects against DDoS attacks, webhook bombing, and API abuse

### 3. Sentry Error Monitoring
**Files:**
- `sentry.client.config.ts` (new)
- `sentry.server.config.ts` (new)
- `sentry.edge.config.ts` (new)
- `src/lib/errors.ts` (updated)

- **Status:** ✅ Ready to deploy (requires DSN configuration)
- **Dependencies Added:**
  - `@sentry/nextjs`
- **Features:**
  - Automatic error tracking in all environments (client, server, edge)
  - Session replay for debugging user issues
  - Performance monitoring with 10% sampling in production
  - Sensitive data filtering (API keys, tokens, secrets)
  - Integration with existing `logError()` utility

**Security Impact:** Early detection of security incidents and system failures

### 4. Environment Variable Documentation
**File:** `.env.example` (new)

- **Status:** ✅ Complete
- **Added Variables:**
  - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN` (optional but recommended)
  - `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL` (optional, falls back to in-memory)
  - `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN` (optional)

## 🔧 Configuration Required

### For Full Production Deployment:

**📖 See [SETUP-GUIDE.md](./SETUP-GUIDE.md) for detailed step-by-step instructions with screenshots!**

Quick summary:

1. **Upstash Redis (Recommended for rate limiting):**
   - Create free account at https://console.upstash.com/
   - Create Redis database
   - Copy credentials and add to Vercel:
     - `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL`
     - `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN`
   - **Time:** 5 minutes

2. **Sentry (Highly Recommended for error monitoring):**
   - Create free account at https://sentry.io/signup/
   - Create Next.js project
   - Copy DSN and add to Vercel:
     - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN`
   - **Time:** 10 minutes

3. **Verify WAHA Webhook Secret is set:**
   ```bash
   # Should already be configured, but verify in Vercel:
   WAHA_WEBHOOK_SECRET=my-aibud-waha-webhook-secret
   ```

## 📊 Security Posture Before vs After

| Security Control | Before | After |
|-----------------|---------|-------|
| Webhook Signature Verification | ❌ Disabled | ✅ Enabled |
| API Rate Limiting | ❌ None | ✅ Multi-tier |
| Error Monitoring | ❌ Console only | ✅ Sentry integration |
| DDoS Protection | ❌ Vulnerable | ✅ Protected |
| Sensitive Data Filtering | ⚠️ Partial | ✅ Comprehensive |

## 🎯 Next Steps (Phase 2 & 3)

### Phase 2: Observability (Before First Customers)
- [ ] Implement structured logging (pino/winston)
- [ ] Add request/response logging middleware
- [ ] Set up Inngest dashboard monitoring
- [ ] Configure uptime monitoring (UptimeRobot/Pingdom)

### Phase 3: Operational Readiness (Before Scaling)
- [ ] Add test coverage (Jest/Vitest, target 40-50%)
- [ ] Complete or remove stub features (poll-manager, vision-estimator, billing-guard)
- [ ] Create incident response runbook
- [ ] Document deployment/rollback procedures
- [ ] Add health check endpoints

## 📖 References

- [Upstash Redis Documentation](https://docs.upstash.com/redis)
- [Sentry Next.js Guide](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/)
- [WAHA Webhook Verification](https://waha.devlike.pro/docs/how-to/webhooks/#hmac-signature)
- [Rate Limiting Best Practices](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6585.html#section-4)

## 🔒 Security Checklist

- [x] Webhook signature verification enabled
- [x] API rate limiting implemented
- [x] Error monitoring configured
- [x] Sensitive data filtering in logs
- [x] Environment variable documentation
- [x] Build passes TypeScript checks
- [ ] Upstash Redis configured in Vercel
- [ ] Sentry DSN configured in Vercel
- [ ] Production smoke tests passed
